# Question
## What other information can uname tell about a system?
..* Kernel name, version, release
..* hostname
..* machine hardware name
..* processor type
..* hardware platform
..* OS
## How can you instruct gcc to produce statically linked binaries?
gcc -static getsysinfo.c -o getsysinfo.o
## Which tools are able to display the dynamic dependencies for binaries on Linux?
file, ldd
## What is the practical problem with dynamic linking when you want to install your program on a different system, e.g. a Virtual Machine?
The loader searches for shared libraries in predefined system directories. Generally this means that they aren't very portable which is very important when copying the programm to other OSes
## How can you get more information about an item in the menuconfig?
By highlighting the item that you want to know more about and pressing the ? key.
## What is the relation between the menuconfig and the .config file in the kernel source directory?
Menuconfig is a textinterface. With it you can edit and save your current .config. If there is no config, the file is generated by menuconfig.
## Which CONFIG_* options belong to the menu entries that are provided above?
General Setup -> Default hostname
## What are the different times displayed by time?
real	- 1m 12,137 (elapsed time)
user	- 4m 2,701s (CPU time in user mode)
sys 	- 0m 20,249s (CPU time spent in the kernel)
## Where and which are the output binary files produced by the compilation?
The binary files are produced in the arch/x86/boot/ folder
a20.o
bioscall.o
cmdline.o
copy.o
cpucheck.o
cpuflags.c
cpu.o
early_serial_console.o
edd.o
header.o
main.o
memory.o
pmjump.o
pm.o
printf.o
regs.o
string.o
tty.o
version.o
video-bios.o
video-mode.o
video.o
video-vesa.o
video-vga.o
## Which is the binary that represents bootable kernel image?
bzImage
## Which TTY-device do you need to pass to the kernel for console input/output?
With console=ttyS0 you select the first serial port.
## Is the system in a usable state, e.g. can you use a shell to execute commands on it?
No
## If not, what is missing?
We're missing a working init
## What could the -L parameter be useful for?
From the help: "Dereference  symbolic  links  (copy  the files that they point to instead of copying the links)."
## How can you list the contents of a CPIO archive?
From Help: -t lists the contents. Usage: cpio -t < initrd-sysinfo.cpio
## What is the path of program that the kernel can execute after unpacking it?
/ in the root directory
## What needs to be passed to the kernel within append in order to tell it what binary to execute?
init=getsysinfo.o
## What is the default executable path of the kernel in case nothing is passed to change it?
/sbin/init
/etc/init
/bin/init
/bin/sh lastly tries borne again shell
## What is the complete qemu command line to run your sysinfo application as the init process?
qemu-system-x86_64 -m 64 -nographic -kernel ~/$KERNEL_SRC/arch/x86/boot/bzImage -append 'console=ttyS0 init=getsysinfo.o' -initrd ~/syso/syso-ws18-syso-ws18-grp5/bin/sysinfo/initrd-sysinfo.cpio
## How do multi-call binaries work?
Multi-call binaries are a single binary that acts like a large number of utilities
## What applets are needed to allow us to interact with the system?
ash
## How are symlinks to these binaries interpreted?
The utility can be run using the utility name as a symbolic link without the busybox prefix.
## Does your busybox file have dynamic link dependencies against libraries installed on the build host?
yes linux-vdso.so & lib.c
## How can you verify this on the command line?
ldd /Path_to_busybox/busybox
What busybox options have you chosen for your new initrd, and why?
script - Run getsysinfo programm
vi - Edit programm
clear - Clear screen
cpio - Extract our cpio archive if needed
less - View a file
ls - List directory contents
man - Man Pages
uname - Check getsysinfo program
free - Check getsysinfo program (used system memory)
hostname Check getsysinfo (hostname)
mount - Mount filesystem
mkdir - Create filesystem
echo - Print arg to stdout
cat - Print file to stdout
## Which aditional directories are required to make the system work at runtime?
bin, usr, init, root, sbin, usr/bin
## Which directoreis need to be created to be compliant with the Linux FHS 3.0
bin, boot, dev, etc, lib, media, mnt, opt, run,sbin,srv, tmp, usr, var
## What are all the mounts/filesystems that are active after the system has booted?
## How does the filetree under / look after the system is booted?

